# 3. Does it meet my organization's size and scaling needs?

The best eQMS for your organization depends on your company's size and growth trajectory. Start-ups and scale-up companies have very different needs to Big Pharma companies and global enterprises.

A QMS for a life science enterprise body will need to accommodate and maintain a large, well-established global portfolio of products which are approved for market. An army of administrators and IT teams can work behind the scenes to drive any monster complex implementation project. Agility isn't required, and not everyone needs to use it. But if you're a start-up or scale-up, fixed complexity is anathema. You need to avoid systems which are so complicated they require a dedicated administrator. Agility, baked-in compliance, the capacity to grow, and early buy-in from as many members of the business as possible are vital.

In this case, an eQMS should help you build scalable, compliant processes that match where your business is on its size and maturity journey. The best way to evaluate software based on company size is according to the number of employees — organizational size can be a better gauge than software characteristics. For example, a well-known enterprise eQMS product is tailored to organizations with 1,000–5,000 employees. Qualio's functionality, on the other hand, is best suited to life science organizations with 5–500 employees. Software in this 'SME sweet spot' can offer greater ease of use and scalability to help start-ups grow through their research and product approval phases and beyond. Even so, you shouldn't take this for granted. Some software vendors targeting smaller life science businesses offer rigid, templated quality systems with the aim of selling quick and easy fixed compliance. This may sound a good idea in practice, but in reality may not afford your business the flexibility to map your eQMS onto your real and ever-evolving business processes. In the long run, this can cause shoehorning and, eventually, outgrowing your software altogether.

Closely linked to this, you should therefore consider how any eQMS will serve your business in the coming years as well as now. Your QMS should scale and expand as your organization's processes and compliance requirements mature. While you may not need CAPA features now, for instance, you will as you approach pre-market approval. And if your organization is in the research and development phase of creating a new product, you could meet your needs by adopting a system which only offers, say, document management and employee training functionality. But a wiser approach would be to consider your quality needs 6, 12, 24 and 36 months down the line, then to adopt software which will help you manage these processes at scale. Which brings us to...
